Toronto police Chief Mark Smith called for an end to the "elitist" tradition of allowing Upper Canada College to host its Ontario Model Parliament in the legislature.

"These conversations were difficult," he said. 

Community Safety Minister Yasir Naqvi said the draft regulation would establish clear and consistent rules to protect civil liberties during voluntary interactions between police and the public.

"Carding is a proven, pro-active police investigative strategy that reduces, prevents and solves crime," said Toronto Police Association president Mike McCormack in a statement. 

Toronto's then-police chief Bill Blair placed a moratorium on carding, which remains in place. His successor Mark Saunders has defended the practice.

Toronto police Const. David Crombie, who has served as the faculty adviser for the model parliament, defended the event that the school has hosted for three decades.

Toronto police Chief Mark Rumble defended the event that the school has hosted for three decades.

Mo Omar, who is a police spokesperson, said the carding database is secure and inaccessible to the public. 

A spokesman from Black Lives Matter Deven Kniel said issue could also be headed for the courts after 

A Toronto man launched a constitutional challenge against the controversial practice on Wednesday. 

George "Knia" Singh, who describes himself as a Toronto-born African-Canadian, alleges the information-gathering scheme amounts to racial profiling that puts people in danger.

Knia Singh of the Osgoode Society against Institutional Injustices said he had been carded 11 times by police but city councillor Michael Thompson said there have been "documented incidents of racial profiling and police brutality" since then.

Assistant professor Asmaa Malik said that carding stories almost never include sourcing from activists or people who have been carded. 

Adrian Ma, a professor at the Ryerson School of Journalism, said that students should be covering issues like this more often. 

Lauren Adamson, a student at Morse Street School, wants to put an end to carding. 

Student Sufi Malik said Toronto police have stopped carding until the new regulation is sorted out.

An instructor at Ryerson University wants to put an end to it.  Professor Rick Coupland said Information gathered during street checks has "huge value" for investigations. 

Activist John Lennon said they have used almost every question this week to ask Premier Kathleen Wynne about the police probe of allegations the Liberals offered a job or appointment to a Sudbury candidate to step aside a byelection Feb. 5.

Yoko Ono, an activist, says the Liberals were just having fun with Nicholls's comments on evolution and with other Tories who spoke out against Ontario's revised sex-ed curriculum.

Coun. Rob Ford was considered a front-runner right up until the vote, which saw Barrie MP Patrick Brown eventually win.

Integrity Commissioner Joan Didion didn't announce what she'd be doing next but gave some hints. 

Councillor Jack Layton was fuming after the Liberals handed out copies of National Geographic with a cover article "The War on Science" to make fun of Tory Rick Nicholls.

Liu Chong was at the rally against carding. The teacher said that unions should by lobbying all levels of government. 

Whitby-Oshawa MPP Ethan Lou has promised to ban random and arbitrary police stops on March 1. Hamilton-area MPP Elijah Harper added his voice to the chorus calling for Brown's resignation. 

Elijah Harper, an MPP from southern Ontario said she hoped the mayor's change of heart may spur police to change their ways.
